index.md, before:

## Introduction

The transport protocol QUIC has evolved from a proprietary effort undertaken by Google to a next generation transport protocol [recently standardized](https://www.ietf.org/blog/innovative-new-technology-for-sending-data/) in the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). While its original motivation and design was to support next-generation Web traffic using HTTP/2, embedding QUIC into the Internet architecture raises exciting challenges beyond the necessary engineering efforts. Both Google QUIC and IETF QUIC have seen deployment and motivated research papers measuring, extending, and evaluating the protocol from various perspectives.

The [ACM CoNEXT 2021](https://conferences2.sigcomm.org/co-next/2021) Workshop on the Evolution, Performance, and Interoperability of QUIC (EPIQ) seeks to further foster this vibrant community. We invite researchers from **academia and industry** as well as engineers to explore novel ideas and future directions of QUIC and its interaction with applications and networks.

## Agenda

The workshop will take place on **Tuesday December 7th 2021**, between 12:15PM and 6PM.

All times are in Central European Time (CET, UTC+1).

Schedule is subject to change. All keynotes and paper slots include time for Q&A. 

<table class="tg">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky">Timeslot</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">Content</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">Artefacts</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">12:15 - 12:30PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Opening</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">12:30 - 1:30PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Keynote 1 : <b>QUIC usage at Microsoft</b><br/>Nick Banks</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">1:30 - 1:45PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Break</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">1:45 - 2:15PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><b>Verifying QUIC implementations using Ivy</b><br/>
Christophe Crochet, Tom Rousseaux, Maxime Piraux, Jean-François Sambon, Axel Legay <i>(UCLouvain)</i></td>
    </td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">
      <a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">2:15 - 2:45PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">
       <b>Days of Future Past: An Optimization-based Adaptive Bitrate Algorithm over HTTP/3</b><br/>
        Daniele Lorenzi <i>(University of Padua)</i>; Minh Nguyen, Farzad Tashtarian <i>(Alpen-Adria-Universität Klagenfurt)</i>; Christian Timmerer <i>(Alpen-Adria Universität Klagenfurt)</i>; Hermann Hellwagner <i>(Alpen-Adria-Universität Klagenfurt)</i>; Simone Milani <i>(University of Padua)</i>
    </td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">2:45 - 3:15PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><b>Tracking the QUIC Spin Bit on Tofino</b><br/>
    Ike Kunze, Constantin Sander, Klaus Wehrle, Jan Rüth <i>(RWTH Aachen University)</i>
    </td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">3:15 - 3:30PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Break</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">3:30 - 4:00PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><b>The Search of the Path MTU with QUIC</b><br/>
Timo Völker, Michael Tüxen <i>(FH Münster University of Applied Sciences)</i>; Erwin P. Rathgeb <i>(University of Duisburg-Essen)</i></td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">4:00 - 4:30PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><b>Evaluation of QUIC-based MASQUE Proxying</b><br/>
Mirja Kühlewind, Matias Carlander-Reuterfelt, Marcus Ihlar, Magnus Westerlund <i>(Ericsson)</i></td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">4:30 - 5:00PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">
      <b>Congestion Control for Real-time Media over QUIC</b><br/>
        Mathis Engelbart, Jörg Ott <i>(Technical University of Munich)</i>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">5:00 - 5:15PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">break</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">5:15 - 6:00PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Keynote 2 : <b>QUIC usage at Apple</b><br/>Tommy Pauly</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Practicals

The workshop will be entirely virtual via Zoom (links to be posted later).

Additional chat will take place on the [QUIC slack group](https://quicdev.slack.com/).

The workshop will be recorded and videos posted to YouTube afterwards. 

## Call For Submissions

EPIQ solicits two types of submissions, for presentation and discussion at the workshop: **academic papers** and **posters**. Submissions of both types should focus on topics related to the rise of QUIC on the mobile and fixed Internet as well as enterprise and datacenter networks. _Only papers focusing on the IETF standard of QUIC are in scope (papers covering the outdated “Google QUIC” are not, unless they thoroughly compare with the IETF version)_. 

Topics of interest include (but are not limited to) in no particular order:

- Qualitative and/or quantitative comparisons of QUIC to other protocols
- Tools for QUIC interoperability and performance testing, validation, and conformance
- Formal security analysis or verification of the QUIC protocol and extension design, including DATAGRAM and Version Negotiation
- Measurements of QUIC traffic in the wild and profiling of QUIC implementations
- Acceleration techniques, including hardware offloading or specific OS improvements
- Scalable QUIC implementations and load balancing
- Advanced QUIC features, including integration of FEC, multicast or multipath connectivity
- Peer-to-peer QUIC and NAT/firewall traversal
- New abstractions and APIs for QUIC as a general-purpose transport protocol
- Troubleshooting, managing and monitoring of QUIC traffic in the network
- New applications for QUIC (e.g., real-time interactive)
- Novel approaches for congestion control and loss recovery enabled by QUIC
- QUIC as a substrate for non-HTTP applications
- Downscaling QUIC for IoT or embedded use
- HTTP/3 (e.g., performance, practical use, extensions)
- QUIC extensions and related technologies, such as WebTransport or MASQUE
- Security and privacy analysis of QUIC features, such as migration, Connection ID rotation, and padding, and their relation to other protocols such as TLS

We encourage the submission of early results, negative results, and independently reproduced results of previously published work.

Examples can be found on the pages of the previous two EPIQ workshops, as well as the page of the QUIPS workshop (which will no longer be organized):
- [EPIQ CoNEXT 2018](https://conferences2.sigcomm.org/co-next/2018/#!/epiqprogram)
- [EPIQ SIGCOMM 2020](https://conferences.sigcomm.org/sigcomm/2020/workshop-epiq.html)
- [QUIPS NDSS 2020](https://www.ndss-symposium.org/ndss2020/cfp-quips-workshop/)

Like the main CoNEXT conference, EPIQ 21 will take place entirely online (probably via Zoom) in the German timezone (CET). 

## Submission Formats

EPIQ solicits two types of submissions for presentation and discussion at the workshop: academic papers and posters.

**Paper submissions** must be original, unpublished work, and not under consideration at another conference or journal. Papers may be up to six pages in length, including all figures, tables, and appendices, but excluding references, for which up to one extra page may be used. The review process is double-blind. Papers must otherwise follow the [formatting requirements of the main ACM CoNEXT 2021 conference](https://conferences2.sigcomm.org/co-next/2021/#!/cfp) (mainly: two-column, 10pt, acm class). Accepted papers will be published in the ACM Digital Library. Authors of accepted papers are required to virtually present and discuss their papers at the workshop.

Poster submissions may be up to two pages in length, and should describe early work, discussion points, new concepts, early tooling development, etc. Accepted posters will be presented in a shorter “lightning talk” to encourage discussion. Poster submissions will not be included in the proceedings, but will be made available via the workshop website.

**Please submit papers and poster proposals at [epiq21.hotcrp.com](https://epiq21.hotcrp.com/)**.

## Deadlines

All deadlines are UTC 23:59:59.

1. CFP opens: 15 July
2. Submission deadline: ~~17 September~~ 24 September (extended)
3. Notification deadline: 18 October
4. Camera ready deadline: 25 October
5. Workshop: **Tuesday 7 December**

## Organizing Committee

### PC Chairs

- Robin Marx, KU Leuven
- Christopher Wood, Cloudflare

### Steering Committee

- Jörg Ott, Technical University Munich
- Lars Eggert, IETF/Netapp

### PC members

- Anna Brunström, Karlstad University
- Stephen Farrell, Trinity College Dublin
- Oliver Hohlfeld, Brandenburg University
- Jana Iyengar, Fastly
- Mirja Kühlewind, Ericsson
- Jan Rüth, RWTH Aachen
- David Schinazi, Google
- Felix Günther, ETH Zurich
- Martin Thomson, Mozilla
- Cristina Nita-Rotaru, Northeastern University
- Colin Perkins, University of Glasgow
- Michael Welzl, University of Oslo
- Vidhi Goel, Apple
- Nick Banks, Microsoft
- Quentin de Coninck, UCLouvain
- Antoine Delignat-Lavaud, Microsoft

## Keynote and Panel

As was the case for previous installments of this workshop, we aim to provide a high quality, in-depth keynote from one of the main companies that helped design and is now deploying QUIC. Previous keynotes by [Facebook](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8lYHNzoPS2o) and [Google](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xxN4FfwaANk) are definitely worth a look. 

Additionally, depending on the amount and quality of submissions, we will also organize a discussion panel on a select few salient topics in the QUIC community. 

## Information

For more information and questions, please contact [Robin Marx](mailto:robin.marx@kuleuven.be) directly.

Commit message:

Added slack and registration links

index.md, after:

## Introduction

The transport protocol QUIC has evolved from a proprietary effort undertaken by Google to a next generation transport protocol [recently standardized](https://www.ietf.org/blog/innovative-new-technology-for-sending-data/) in the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). While its original motivation and design was to support next-generation Web traffic using HTTP/2, embedding QUIC into the Internet architecture raises exciting challenges beyond the necessary engineering efforts. Both Google QUIC and IETF QUIC have seen deployment and motivated research papers measuring, extending, and evaluating the protocol from various perspectives.

The [ACM CoNEXT 2021](https://conferences2.sigcomm.org/co-next/2021) Workshop on the Evolution, Performance, and Interoperability of QUIC (EPIQ) seeks to further foster this vibrant community. We invite researchers from **academia and industry** as well as engineers to explore novel ideas and future directions of QUIC and its interaction with applications and networks.

## Agenda

The workshop will take place on **Tuesday December 7th 2021**, between 12:00PM and 6:00PM.

All times are in Central European Time (CET, UTC+1).

Schedule is subject to change. All keynotes and paper slots include time for Q&A. 

<table class="tg">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky">Timeslot</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">Content</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">Artefacts</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">12:15 - 12:30PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Opening</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">12:30 - 1:30PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Keynote 1 : <b>QUIC usage at Microsoft</b><br/>Nick Banks</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">1:30 - 1:45PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Break</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">1:45 - 2:15PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><b>Verifying QUIC implementations using Ivy</b><br/>
Christophe Crochet, Tom Rousseaux, Maxime Piraux, Jean-François Sambon, Axel Legay <i>(UCLouvain)</i></td>
    </td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">
      <a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">2:15 - 2:45PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">
       <b>Days of Future Past: An Optimization-based Adaptive Bitrate Algorithm over HTTP/3</b><br/>
        Daniele Lorenzi <i>(University of Padua)</i>; Minh Nguyen, Farzad Tashtarian <i>(Alpen-Adria-Universität Klagenfurt)</i>; Christian Timmerer <i>(Alpen-Adria Universität Klagenfurt)</i>; Hermann Hellwagner <i>(Alpen-Adria-Universität Klagenfurt)</i>; Simone Milani <i>(University of Padua)</i>
    </td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">2:45 - 3:15PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><b>Tracking the QUIC Spin Bit on Tofino</b><br/>
    Ike Kunze, Constantin Sander, Klaus Wehrle, Jan Rüth <i>(RWTH Aachen University)</i>
    </td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">3:15 - 3:30PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Break</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">3:30 - 4:00PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><b>The Search of the Path MTU with QUIC</b><br/>
Timo Völker, Michael Tüxen <i>(FH Münster University of Applied Sciences)</i>; Erwin P. Rathgeb <i>(University of Duisburg-Essen)</i></td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">4:00 - 4:30PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><b>Evaluation of QUIC-based MASQUE Proxying</b><br/>
Mirja Kühlewind, Matias Carlander-Reuterfelt, Marcus Ihlar, Magnus Westerlund <i>(Ericsson)</i></td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">4:30 - 5:00PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">
      <b>Congestion Control for Real-time Media over QUIC</b><br/>
        Mathis Engelbart, Jörg Ott <i>(Technical University of Munich)</i>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">paper</a>, <a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">5:00 - 5:15PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">break</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">5:15 - 6:00PM</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Keynote 2 : <b>QUIC usage at Apple</b><br/>Tommy Pauly</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky"><a href="TBD">slides</a>, <a href="TBD">recording</a></td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Practicals

The workshop will be entirely virtual via Zoom (links to be posted later).

Note that to attend the workshop, **you must register for the CoNEXT conference**.
This can be done on [this dedicated registration page](https://conferences2.sigcomm.org/co-next/2021/#!/registration).

Additional chat will take place on the [SIGCOMM slack group](https://sigcomm.slack.com), via the dedicated "conext21-workshop-epiq" channel. 
If you are not yet registered there, you can do so [via this link](https://sigcomm.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-uhdre6eo-dcEZe7iZWLPMlMdaEMAl5g#/shared-invite/email).

The workshop will be recorded and videos posted to YouTube afterwards. 


## Call For Submissions

EPIQ solicits two types of submissions, for presentation and discussion at the workshop: **academic papers** and **posters**. Submissions of both types should focus on topics related to the rise of QUIC on the mobile and fixed Internet as well as enterprise and datacenter networks. _Only papers focusing on the IETF standard of QUIC are in scope (papers covering the outdated “Google QUIC” are not, unless they thoroughly compare with the IETF version)_. 

Topics of interest include (but are not limited to) in no particular order:

- Qualitative and/or quantitative comparisons of QUIC to other protocols
- Tools for QUIC interoperability and performance testing, validation, and conformance
- Formal security analysis or verification of the QUIC protocol and extension design, including DATAGRAM and Version Negotiation
- Measurements of QUIC traffic in the wild and profiling of QUIC implementations
- Acceleration techniques, including hardware offloading or specific OS improvements
- Scalable QUIC implementations and load balancing
- Advanced QUIC features, including integration of FEC, multicast or multipath connectivity
- Peer-to-peer QUIC and NAT/firewall traversal
- New abstractions and APIs for QUIC as a general-purpose transport protocol
- Troubleshooting, managing and monitoring of QUIC traffic in the network
- New applications for QUIC (e.g., real-time interactive)
- Novel approaches for congestion control and loss recovery enabled by QUIC
- QUIC as a substrate for non-HTTP applications
- Downscaling QUIC for IoT or embedded use
- HTTP/3 (e.g., performance, practical use, extensions)
- QUIC extensions and related technologies, such as WebTransport or MASQUE
- Security and privacy analysis of QUIC features, such as migration, Connection ID rotation, and padding, and their relation to other protocols such as TLS

We encourage the submission of early results, negative results, and independently reproduced results of previously published work.

Examples can be found on the pages of the previous two EPIQ workshops, as well as the page of the QUIPS workshop (which will no longer be organized):
- [EPIQ CoNEXT 2018](https://conferences2.sigcomm.org/co-next/2018/#!/epiqprogram)
- [EPIQ SIGCOMM 2020](https://conferences.sigcomm.org/sigcomm/2020/workshop-epiq.html)
- [QUIPS NDSS 2020](https://www.ndss-symposium.org/ndss2020/cfp-quips-workshop/)

Like the main CoNEXT conference, EPIQ 21 will take place entirely online (probably via Zoom) in the German timezone (CET). 

## Submission Formats

EPIQ solicits two types of submissions for presentation and discussion at the workshop: academic papers and posters.

**Paper submissions** must be original, unpublished work, and not under consideration at another conference or journal. Papers may be up to six pages in length, including all figures, tables, and appendices, but excluding references, for which up to one extra page may be used. The review process is double-blind. Papers must otherwise follow the [formatting requirements of the main ACM CoNEXT 2021 conference](https://conferences2.sigcomm.org/co-next/2021/#!/cfp) (mainly: two-column, 10pt, acm class). Accepted papers will be published in the ACM Digital Library. Authors of accepted papers are required to virtually present and discuss their papers at the workshop.

Poster submissions may be up to two pages in length, and should describe early work, discussion points, new concepts, early tooling development, etc. Accepted posters will be presented in a shorter “lightning talk” to encourage discussion. Poster submissions will not be included in the proceedings, but will be made available via the workshop website.

**Please submit papers and poster proposals at [epiq21.hotcrp.com](https://epiq21.hotcrp.com/)**.

## Deadlines

All deadlines are UTC 23:59:59.

1. CFP opens: 15 July
2. Submission deadline: ~~17 September~~ 24 September (extended)
3. Notification deadline: 18 October
4. Camera ready deadline: 25 October
5. Workshop: **Tuesday 7 December**

## Organizing Committee

### PC Chairs

- Robin Marx, KU Leuven
- Christopher Wood, Cloudflare

### Steering Committee

- Jörg Ott, Technical University Munich
- Lars Eggert, IETF/Netapp

### PC members

- Anna Brunström, Karlstad University
- Stephen Farrell, Trinity College Dublin
- Oliver Hohlfeld, Brandenburg University
- Jana Iyengar, Fastly
- Mirja Kühlewind, Ericsson
- Jan Rüth, RWTH Aachen
- David Schinazi, Google
- Felix Günther, ETH Zurich
- Martin Thomson, Mozilla
- Cristina Nita-Rotaru, Northeastern University
- Colin Perkins, University of Glasgow
- Michael Welzl, University of Oslo
- Vidhi Goel, Apple
- Nick Banks, Microsoft
- Quentin de Coninck, UCLouvain
- Antoine Delignat-Lavaud, Microsoft

## Keynote and Panel

As was the case for previous installments of this workshop, we aim to provide a high quality, in-depth keynote from one of the main companies that helped design and is now deploying QUIC. Previous keynotes by [Facebook](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8lYHNzoPS2o) and [Google](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xxN4FfwaANk) are definitely worth a look. 

Additionally, depending on the amount and quality of submissions, we will also organize a discussion panel on a select few salient topics in the QUIC community. 

## Information

For more information and questions, please contact [Robin Marx](mailto:robin.marx@kuleuven.be) directly.
